e
e e
but it's a good
morning it is a good
morning so let's see
here if I can hear
myself yep I hear the old
man okay welcome welcome welcome
so if you turn your attention to the
chart on the left hand side that is the
5 minute chart it's set to regular
trading
hours so that way I can adjust where we
get our first opening price I'll just
drag this up here down to it and this is
a 15sec
chart and this black line in here say
the previous settlement price or where
we stopped trading yesterday 414 4:15
p.m.
and there we
go so here is
our opening range Gap
High you guys know the protocol first 30
minutes we're looking for half the Gap
to fill and here it is essentially done
so and the Gap is real close to being
filled already and it's also inside of
the new day opening Gap so it's it's a
little
lackluster in terms of
uh what you might expect for for big
volatility so it's really really next to
uh little one Changs in my
opinion so remember I was teaching you
about uh how big the opening range Gap
is and what information you get from
that uh there isn't a lot large opening
range Gap today it was a premium Gap so
now we're below it so you want to turn
your attention
to and you can notice the difference
between where we opened that here on the
record trading hours that was the point
of showing
that now we're below it so you want to
see do we
have any
respect inside this area here it's also
uh the consequent coent of the new day
opening gap for today so September 12th
new day opening
[Music]
Gap now there's a little bit of a by
side Bound cell sign efficiency on the
hourly
chart I'll take you over to that quick
pop this see we're at in here so that is
something that might be a catalyst for
us to then try to
seek more of a premium or try to explore
the upper end of that opening range
Gap excuse
me and we'll put our quadrants on
that
efficiency um
I like the fact that we opened and and
trade
lower because it's punishing those
individuals that want to
chase the rally that was yesterday and
it's t that's like very Classic Market
making so you can see we did Trad in the
upper quadrant of that five minute chart
over
here so now we have a minor buy side
here at the end dog for today at the low
the previous settlement price
here and then we have the opening range
Gap itself
here so we want to see if we can dig up
into that they have minor buyid sitting
right up here at these highs
[Music]
like they're about to take those
individuals
out see how we worked from dropping
lower into that 5 minute bid bance C
efficiency which upsets this liquidity
right here and I was talking about I on
Twitter um I was on there last couple
days standing in the
Flames hanging out with the boys so
there's that minor byid sweat there so
it's almost like we know we're doing
around here the uh the
lower run into this B balance cell
efficiency if it's bullish remember what
I was what I've been teaching in the
2024 mentorship when there's an
inefficiency we are not looking for a
complete overlap of that single
Candlestick that makes the inefficiency
we want to see sensitivity in the upper
half of but you can see that actually
happening here and then digging up
into open trading down to the top of
that opening range Gap the high of it
and then
rallying so now going to turn our
attention to exploring a little bit
higher
up and
take ourselves back five minute
here four
okay you see how we just Dro down into
the high of that opening range Gap
again there's a small inefficiency in
there as
well so allow it to get into that and
see what it want to do with that
[Music]
information so for a model you can use
the uh
one was outlined over
here narrative I shared on this morning
I want to see it drop
down it dropped down and into a discount
array which is this buyid balance Sid
efficiency frame with this candle's low
this candle's High upper half of that is
where the sensitivity is going to be
means if it's going to be bullish that's
where you want to find the
setup all right Chas down into
here then aimed for the opening range
Gap high that would be a very very low
hanging fruit objective if you were
trying to use this as an area to go long
for that and then the B the minor buy
side
liquidity was the next
one so so far we have dropped
initially right from the opening bell
opening bell is 930 and again this this
chart here don't get confused used it's
a 15sec chart on the right hand
side and that 30 minute opening price is
here 9:30 rather
just doing some work inside the Open
Range
Gap I'm actually going to change this
color it's a little too much tension
placed on it and I want you being
affected from a sentiment
perspective all right so we
have a very very large smooth area that
uh we watched a a week ago
19695 and if
you if you look at it on a 60-minute
chart and let me take it into
regular I'm sorry electronic trading
hours
yeah got pretty that chart is good you
really keep your charts clean
yeah that's what a professional does so
if we look at how all these highs over
here see how clean they
are I mentioned this on Twitter I'd like
to see it drop down and then start
working towards that level does it need
to go there entirely today no but I'd
like to see he try to March towards that
now because it's done a tremendous job
of uh destroying any short sellers
Yesterday by just going higher and
higher and higher and pressing into that
so that that's kind of like what we're
looking at for the remainder of the year
I think we're going to have a very very
busy fall going into end of the year so
volatility is going to be off the charts
like it's going to be very very fun but
very very dangerous so don't think that
you know every bet should be heavy you
should be uh more inclined to lower your
leverage but your trade frequency can if
you're going to be working these lower
time frames they that can actually be
elevated a little bit more because
you're going to have a whole lot more
setups if you know what you're looking
for all right so that's the smooth area
I like longer term that's what we're
looking for I going to gra back into a
one minute
chart here
it's playing a little dirty this
morning back and forth in there tagging
that uh new day opening Gap and previous
settlement price multiple times inside
that area
[Music]
and you're
933 9:30 931 32 33 Candlestick the
opening range essentially is that first
presentation fairb Gap as well so it
would look like this you have that frame
but that would be your
first ver Bay gap between 9:30 and 10
o'clock
give it a little bit of
time it's working around inside that uh
dailying range from the highs here down
to that
low back in the open opening range
G opening range is a a time
again between 9:30
and
10 okay so it's the first 30 minutes of
trading and what you're looking for is
initial buy side and sell side to be
established you're also looking for any
initial PD array so any sign significant
break or any significant uh imbalance B
imbalance cell efficiency sell imbalance
B efficiency buy sisy either
one and that'll give you the context for
perhaps a silver bullet trade in 10 o'
now look at the one minute chart over
here it's a little gnarly isn't it now
contrast that with phe where it just has
a really nice Gap it has very obvious
buy side and sell side that has a range
away from where it opens up at at 9:30
and those buy slide are sside liquidity
pools and there's a larger gap opening
uh you don't want to be having a whole
lot of excitement around days that have
a very small opening range Gap like we
have here you know it's literally like
15 handles or
so so it's not even very much between
the previous settlement price and the
opening price which is the higher price
between yesterday's settlement price and
today's open so that's what makes at the
opening range Gap high and by definition
that would be the opening range Gap
low so one of the things that we watch
pre-market it means anything before 9:30
opening bell is we're looking
for
um is it maintaining its opening range
gap or as we get closer to 9:30 is it
reducing it in size because if it's
reducing it in size that means we're
going to probably have a very muddy
morning or at least the first 30 minutes
could become potentially a very muddy
session and so far we have all this
choppiness in here and while I would
prefer seeing it go higher uh there
isn't anything in here to to operate on
so we have to wait and let the market do
what it wants to do keeping in mind that
everybody on the street has saw that
move yesterday
and they want to do what they they want
to be long so that initial drop down may
not be all there is for a Judah swing
here so this drop down here they may
want to go one more time deeper than
that and anyone that's already long they
could be displaced from having that
position and no longer be in the
market so it takes a little bit of
patience working with these types of
environments and no one really should be
looking at this and thinking wow I I got
got to get in on this you know it's got
to be uh you know there's nothing better
than this right
now the the Market's not really poised
yet to do it so just give it its chance
to move
around and finalize all of its
uh opening
range 15 minutes is not enough
information for the daily range so it's
a 30 minute algorithmic period between
9:30 a.m. easn Standard Time to 10:00
a.m. eastern standard time that is the
algorithm's opening range it sets up
initial buy side and cell side and then
operates with that you can also do
standard deviations on this range hello
hint hint nudge nudge so it gives you
all of these projections usually I tuck
that stuff deep deep deep inside the the
lectures but I fig i' tossed that out
there because some of you were following
as sleep watching these candlesticks
paint
sideways Yes Virginia if you take the
highest high and the lowest low in the
first 30 minutes and project them up
you're going to get your intermate term
and long-term daily intercession highs
and lows don't take my word for it you
got you got to see it for yourself and
you'll see there is an
algorithm all right so here we are back
inside the Open Range Gap
now I like the idea of what it's doing
in here because it's
it's like falling short of going any
higher above that uh 290 level and we're
back inside the opening range Gap we
have relative equal lows in here and
again this is a 15-second chart so
there's liquidity resting below into
that and I like to see it one more time
go below these lows over here on the one
minute chart because again I was saying
earlier that everybody on the street
that means people that just watch the
news they watch CNBC they newspapers or
articles or they watch other people um
do something and then because they did
something previous day that was bullish
or bearish and it was a big day there's
a lot of excitement about yesterday uh
they'll want to go in and their bias
will be well I want to do what was
happening yesterday because large ranges
you know brings in a lot of excitement
and you can see how but the individuals
that maybe would look to go long or
maybe that are long naturally their stop
loss is going to be right here below
these loads in
here and it takes a little bit of time
watching price and presenting these a
little bit harder conditions where if
you're just really impulsive and you
want to take some action getting in
because you think it's going to keep
going up for a longer
term the
first 30 minutes of the next trading day
if you sit still and don't do anything
during that period perod I promise you
there's lots of other opportunities you
don't have to trade the morning session
either like you can literally just trade
what the afternoon session so my
question to you is how many of you
already remembered that you're not
supposed to be doing anything in the
morning session
today that's a large range candle
yesterday right on your daily chart so
the protocol is what you don't trade in
the morning session if your brand new
you don't trade the morning session now
someone that has a little bit more
experience we just bang the lower end of
that new day opening Gap over here for
September 12th that's today's new day
opening Gap so we hit that I'd like to
see if we had um any interest to explore
lower low not for the sake of expanding
lower but just to go down into maybe
consequent encouragement of that 1 hour
buyid and balance side efficiency there
we go so anyone that's long they just
had their uh their their bread
[Music]
toasted this is what I meant by keeping
your fingers out of the mashed potatoes
our range days you got to be careful in
the morning session this they're going
to punish anyone that wants to be on
that same side of whatever the previous
days range was if it's large on your
daily chart when that occurs next
morning session sit still write it down
in your Journal you have permission to
sit still you have permission not to
trade the morning session remind
yourself that I promise you you will
probably save yourself a whole lot more
frustration and equity and not probably
blow your account or go on tilt because
you're forcing something in an
environment that's already predisposed
to try to hurt individuals doing the
very thing that yesterday's Daily
Candlestick showed in other words ex
extremely bullishness okay well they're
going to lay down a landmine field in
the morning session because what that
does let's let's make the argument for a
sake of if it's going to go higher and
it can I'd like to see it go up there
and take out that 19,000 uh 695 level I
would like to see that disrupted but it
doesn't have to do that it could do that
months from now it could do it years
from now okay um or never right those
are always possible scenarios but
because
yesterday we had such a huge very
very energetic you know entertaining
candle on the daily chart that just kept
going higher and higher and
higher that excitement bleeds into the
next trading day and now everybody's out
here that
are novice Traders let's look at it that
way they're excited they want to be long
so they're going to take buys on
everything that they can hear someone
talk about follow signals if someone
says something on online chats that's
bullish you know and they what they want
to do with their with their trading
that's going to be the Catalyst this say
yep that's all I needed that little bit
of a bump and now I'm going to take
initiative and get in there and trade
long and in the first 30 minutes of the
session what generally happens is is it
allows these types of traders to come in
and it lays down a little bit of
breadcrumbs like hey look we're going up
and all of these little bull Flags in
here on
the the 15sec chart and I like how like
I said it was failing to get up there it
means it's likely to do what roll over
and dig into that buy side imbalance on
the all chart which is the Shaded area
is blue and then take out that initial
low of the day where there's cell sign
so why would that be advantageous for
the algorithm to do that why why would
it why would it be a good thing to see
something like that un unfold well
because you actually have early buyers
coming in trying to do what they saw
yesterday's winning crowd do be
profitable being long so if they lay
down this landmine field of here's a low
start sending a higher opportunities to
go in here uh supply and demand guys
okay they'll they'll call this a
a a demand
Zone and they give it to him here and
here and then no we're not going to let
you go higher and even the supply demand
dudes are going to be doing what they're
going to place their stop loss below
there Fibonacci Traders are going to be
buying down in here on retracements and
ratios and harmonic pattern Traders are
going to get all this little bit of a
movement lower here and they're going to
get excited by that and they're going to
buy it moving average crossovers okay
every every possible indicator that is
an overball oversold momentum indicator
they're all oversold here that's what
retail Traders like myself when I was 20
years old in
1992 that was the secret to the market I
I believe
then and then what everybody initially
that's long on a large range day that
closed higher in the first 30 minutes
that low is always going to be a suspect
low whatever low they form and and they
paint this little tiny short-term low
always expect that scenario that they're
going to lay that down as a trap so you
can use it as a turtle suit you can use
it as a scalp to trade down into
that over here
working the upper end of that opening
range Gap in here breaks lower trades
inside of this inefficiency and returns
right back into the end off and then
trades lower listen to the recording
back at the that period of time it'll
all be in
recording and it sweeps the low over
here where the cell side is okay now
it's accumulating inside the end dog and
I like to see them run up in here and
clear up some of this buy side and how
we trade there once we get there will be
indicative of any continuation going
further but we're still inside that 30
minute uh time frame so you have to be
careful you don't want to be trying to
bet the farm yet meaning you're not
trying to secure the low of the day or
the high of the day they can play real
dirty in this uh first 30 minutes
so we're still inside that opening range
Gap and dog low
so what you're learning Caleb is things
to lean on for
logic um comparing what the daily range
was and how price traded the previous
day and or excuse me Andor the last
session of the day meaning the the PM
session and the last hour trading
seasonal allergies I mentioned it the
the other day you're probably going to
have
that frustration that I get sometimes I
I when I listen to a speaker or I listen
to an
audiobook and they do their speaking and
they either have a head cold or they're
very mucousy it's hard for me to you
know focus on what they're saying
because I'm hearing all their their bit
there's so live other it's disgusting
isn't it but you know I just got to show
you I'm not
AI about how about that all right
so we are inside of over here watch this
this candlestick's Wick midpoint
consequent encroachment we came down hit
that so I'm watching this level here as
I'm watching the
15sec okay so now what I'm about to say
just that this isn't mean it's the
secret sauce to it okay but I get
question all the time is H you know how
am I looking at all those monitors
because I have a whole array of 12
monitors that are on my my desk and then
I have several monitors to the right and
then I have a tablet and then I have the
laptop here that I'm live streaming I'm
not in my office right now I'm just
simply looking at I'm actually on my bed
right now but uh what I'm watching is is
I'll have different time frames like
I'll have a daily chart I'll have a 4our
chart 1 hour chart 15 minute chart five
minute chart and then I have a matrix
chart where it's the 5 4 3 2 1 and then
I do the same thing with a 45 second 30
second 15 second and 5c matrix chart
where I'm I'm constantly going through
my
eyesight I my eyes are going to each one
of those time frames Cy through
constantly when I'm watching price I'm
constantly going through looking for
that and I'm looking for how Traders
would see those time frames and
Implement either an interest in buying
or selling it or where their stop loss
would be placed in respect to that
specific time frame because not
everybody trades on a one minute chart
not everybody trades on a FIV minute
chart so when the market affords a 1H
hour setup or a 4our
setup I I'm constantly bringing that
information into my
mind in terms of building a narrative
what should the participants fall on in
terms of Ruin how can these traders that
are less informed fail today that's what
I'm looking for I'm looking for that
opportunity to see where I can see
something that is in my mind high
probability it's going to go to a
specific level go higher or lower and
then if I had that same thing unfolding
at a time when something retail some
kind of retail pattern a dou double
touch or a triple touch to some kind of
supposed diagonal trend line or you know
something nonsensical some kind of
pennant pattern or you shape some kind
of shape that they see okay um it's kind
of like when you look and see and look
up in the clouds and you think you see a
a face or you see something else because
our our our minds are designed to look
for that we're actually seeking the face
of God whether you believe it or not and
that's why we have that phenomena always
occur we're always seeing like faces in
in things oh I saw the face of so and so
my grilled cheese
sandwich that's actually occurring in
everybody not that we would all see the
same face in a grilled cheese sandwich
mind you but we have that phenomenon
occur in our minds because we're wired
that way so if you go in you
start building a sensitivity and opening
your particular activating system to the
possibility of the market respecting you
know geometric patterns you triangles
and whatnot uh
rhomboids that to me a little myopic so
you have to you have to strip it down to
what makes the markets go
up buyers seeking what higher
prices and that buyer has to buy a
discount price and that's what the
algorithm affords it Okay so we've
completed our
10 a.m. opening range Gap um sorry
opening range and now we're inside the
opening range Gap the low of it touching
the endg low right there
so now look at that one minute chart on
left hand
side nothing in
here is terribly exciting is it we're
basically unchanged from where we closed
yesterday so how is that exciting it's
not and this is typical of what you see
on a morning session after a large range
day if it's higher or lower it doesn't
matter it's not because it went higher
it's acting this way it same thing is
going to happen on a large range day
that's on a down
close we have minor buy side
here like
that up here
[Music]
okay so we had cell side below this low
here taken look at the bodies down here
what were the bodies respecting the
lower quadrant of that 1 hour bid and
balance cellid efficiency that's what
this blue shaded area is over here in
case you just started watching the
stream so I'm going to take the
uh
10:00 vertical lines off cuz they're no
longer necessary to to communicate the
the
method so it touched the end dog high
again here and consequent encroachment
of the opening range Gap want to see if
it can mount a run into the liquidity
resting above the 288.15
level the better trading should be in
the afternoon starting 1:30 p.m. Eastern
Standard Time going into the last hour
trading why because we had a very anemic
opening it was really small in terms of
Open Range Gap it's after what a large
range
update so you can afford to go fishing
on the morning sessions after a large
range day and then come back grab some
lunch maybe take a nap and then at 1:30
sit at your desk and then trade the
afternoon session because you're going
to get a whole lot more cleaner price
runs you won't get a lot of this fickle
back and forth where it's just I don't
want to go anywhere ICT just me to stay
here I want to stay in bed that's what
the Market's basically saying right now
it wants to stay in bed it's
lazy all right so I would want to see it
run here to that 28875 level if it's
bullish it should run here but keep in
mind Caleb while you're watching this
you're in a session post large range so
what does that mean setups are more
prone to fail that's the reason why you
should not be trying to go in here and
press it hard on a morning session after
a large range day that is a climate and
a characteristic about the daily range
that you have to at least be aware
of I didn't discover that you know
overnight it took lots and lots of blown
accounts draw down and frustration and I
found out that what I was trying to do
was I was taking my my Katana that had a
razor sharp edge and I was rubbing it
against a concrete block like a saw
dulling it so I was using like a t on
something that it's not designed to to
cut so you have to sit
still wait for the opportunity with the
characteristics of the daily range to be
there okay um
you want a Candlestick range Theory uh
this is one of them okay but you ain't
hearing it in those dollar mentorships
okay the wish version of smart
money I tell you what I'm really having
a lot of fun being on Twitter again I'm
I'm only visiting for a short while mind
you but man life it is it's successful
over there everybody knows
nothing all right back down into the
endg so now imagine for a moment okay
say for instance
Caleb that you were wanting to trade
today okay and the very first fair value
Gap that forms on the one minute
chart is you have it at the 933
candle SO trading down into that we get
a delivery above the short-term High
here yes by going here but what happened
after that right back into the range and
then attacked what I was outlining that
they would use the initial low of the
day to Target anyone that to chase the
price that was delivered to the market
yesterday which is a very large up Clos
day on the daily chart so the market
came down took those individuals
out the bodies over here respected the B
balance efficiency of the hourly chart
that's that blue shaded area here okay
and then they ran just for short-term
liquidity there and this big balanced
area here is offering
initial High Resistance
so you have to sit still and take in
more information you're not trying to
press the button on these sessions
you're not trying to be smart you're not
trying to be right okay what you're
doing is you're seeing how are they
hurting traders that just can't sit
still how are they doing that they keep
coming back offering deep little well I
shouldn't say deep they keep causing
retracements to take out short-term lows
but they're not letting the market go
higher you see that watch look at the
15sec
chart see this swing low actually it
start over here with the
initial we have this low here which is
the upper quadrant of this blue shaded
area which is a 1 hour buy side and
bound sell side and efficiency the
market trades down below that and then
trades higher it creates a swing low
right there you see that That Swing Low
not because it has a swing low that has
a low a higher low to the left of it and
a higher low to the right of it that
doesn't make that swing low interesting
to me just because it does that what
makes it interesting is that that swing
low is forming at the high of the bid
bound cell sign efficiency that blue
shaded area here on your hourly chart
again let me let me show you over here
so now if I don't do this the new people
get confused this candlestick's high
this candlestick's low this one big
candle passing through the difference
between this candle's high that candle's
low that inefficiency that's what I'm
measuring I have a fib from here to here
so that upper quadrant level is where
this swing uh swing low is forming so
that's going to have liquidity below
that has an interest in in in my mind
I'm interested seeing that so when I'm
watching price deliver is it doing a run
below that it does and then you have
this swing High which happens to be just
at the top of the opening range Gap
that's this gray Shad area Okay so
there's what's above that it's buy side
so the market does what it sweeps the
sell side here attacks the buy side here
and then the relative equal highs it's
taken
that and then we have a swing High here
at the high end of the opening range Gap
again and there's sell side below here
so we're digging into that every single
time it takes the cell side it's not
coming up deep enough to get into that
19,28 of. 75 of so to me when I see this
let's say for instance that we stay in
the range between the
low of this buy bound cell sign
efficiency on this hourly chart say say
we don't take that out but we maintain
the highest high it's formed today and
we maintain that range throughout all
the morning session and going into the
lunch
hour so if I turn my charts on at say
for instance 1:00 1:15 right before 1:30
and that range still is there then I'd
be more inclined to expect to see them
to release it and start exploring higher
prices right now they're just chopping
people up because they all want to be on
board they all want to be on board and
every time short-term lows are being
taken out what's below that cell side so
again why would that be why would that
be
gainful what would be the U the
advantages of of seeing that unfold
someone's accumulating that someone's
accumulating those those stops that are
being taken out and you're you're
thinking well well you Michael this is a
15sec chart you know who's got stocks
below
that everybody that you'll never meet
out there there's always somebody buying
and selling I mean just look at social
media they're telling you that they're
buying stuff and selling stuff based on
nonsense the Stars horoscopes you
know whatever the
uh there's always buying and selling
that's gonna that's going to be in the
marketplace but my interest is where can
that buying and selling be targeted
it's not buying and selling pressure
it's buying and selling
liquidity that's the that's the real
Mojo okay it's not the buying and
selling pressure it's where are those
orders and where are they laid in a in a
manner where the narrative can exploit
that so for instance let's let's paint
the scenario for a moment let's say that
you are bearish okay so you're bearish
and you're expecting to market the
market to go lower your eyesight should
be ke
doing every short-term swing
High every time frame and you would be
watching and monitoring how price is
delivered once it trades above those
short-term highs and if you are on side
and you have the right analysis that you
think the market is going
lower the market
should accumulate those short-term highs
for the purpose of taking the buy stops
out and then your mind should think okay
if that's occurring that means smart
money is probably in the move right now
and they're building their position
every time these short-term Highs are
taken they're establishing the other
side of those buy stops and they're
leaving their orders in because they
expect what a longer term move lower
okay well here we're seeing the ACT
opposite we're seeing all the short-term
lows
here being swept
there these here being swept there and
that one making sure that one's gone the
buy side that's resting here and the
high of the morning session over here
where these clean Highs are that's where
the next buy side would be so we would
have to measure what the delivery of
price is once it gets above these levels
here because it's already done enough in
my opinion to accumulate enough of the
cell stops to then now allow for that
range try to flirt with a little bit of
a think about if they want
to send price
higher they have to do what they have to
enter before it goes up so what's the
easiest way to
find sellers at a cheap
price take out short-term
lows and those short-term lows being
taken out that means that their sell
stops they retail minded Traders and
there to buy side hit there the the sell
STS being taken out affords the smart
money to accumulate them and see retail
is going to buy and sell buy and sell
and and be impulsive about what they're
doing where smart money sits still and
they wait because everybody's coming out
here to the same Watering Hole the
initial you know 30 minutes or so of
trading there's this big rush to do
something they're all
thirsty and most Predators they go to
the watering hole at night
because their prey are usually
sleeping Predators come at night and
they get their drinks so they're not
going to the roing hole in the day the
the drink down there with the gazel and
the antelope and the water buffalo and
whatever goes down there whatever they
eat basically they're in a tall grass
waiting for them to go down and when
they walk into their crosshairs
proverbially speaking they pounce on
them to eat them
and that's what smart money is doing
it's it's waiting for these
opportunities for the market
participants to say Okay I want to be on
board in the marketplace long because
that's what it did
yesterday and darn it I just want to be
on the right side once in a while and I
think it's it's going to go higher okay
well wonderful but soon as the bell
rings they're going to go in there and
do what byy bye bye bye bye or they'll
wait for some kind of a initial support
level and when they see this type of
movement here and it starts to Rally up
well Highs are being taken there that's
a breakout they're seeing what pattern
in here bull Flags bull Flags oh there's
some support in here and then it rolls
over and goes where I told you to aim
for which is this
low and it went down below it after
hitting the end dog go back and listen
to the recording it's going to go down
here from here rather take out that
initial low of the
day why does it want to do that
because it's
engineering sentiment for Traders to be
discouraged oh it's uh it's going to go
it's going to go lower okay I wanted to
go in and go long but now it's going to
go lower so now I have to go short well
that's the same thing as a sell stop
being hit because now that same seller
in the marketplace smart money will
accumulate a long position against that
liquidity as well so don't think for a
second that it just has to be below low
if the market starts to show like this
faint of a of a move like it wants to go
lower told you it was just going go down
and take out that cell stops on the
initial
low and then it
cleared the relative equal highs over
here and look where it's pressing in
here just alone based on everything I've
shed here like that is light years ahead
of white golf and all kinds of other
stuff out there that people falsely
attribute to me me is
repackaging you're not going to find
these types of uh insights in any other
book you're not going to get it okay
you're not going to get it Larry
Williams didn't teach this ly rash and
Larry Connors in their book Street
smarts didn't teach
that and without me explain like imagine
just what I've talked about so far in
the last 15 minutes it would take me so
many
charts of every tiny little incremental
move here to try to illustrate what I
just did live I can't put that kind of
stuff in a book that it's not
efficiently delivered and taught in a
book like you have to watch it being
done over a live chart that that's
that's the uh benefit of being mentored
by someone that knows what they're
talking about they can explain it live
of a real-time price action with a
15-second chart reading it off of a
higher time frame hourly chart on
Twitter I told you I want to see it drop
initially and then work towards what the
19695 level okay uh is that that here
absolutely not okay but is it moving in
that direction yes and that's all you're
looking for as a short-term intraday
Trader you're looking for something to
provide a
catalyst okay if you're bullish what
gives you the framework to trust that
the market itself should go higher don't
tell me the patterns that you're looking
for that's the least important thing
because that's your entry the entry is
not
important why should the market go when
you think it's going to go up
that's the more important question and
if you go in right out of the gate at
9:30 in the morning after a large range
day you're going to be met with
adversities and you're probably going to
get stopped out even if you're right on
the direction where the market is going
to likely go for the the shortterm the
inmediate term or the long-term draw on
liquidity if you're bullish that means
like where you think it's going to go to
as a
Target you may have all that right
but if you don't expect
adversity range bound time Distortion
that's what you're experiencing in the
first 30
minutes after a large range
day whether it's a bullish day or a
bearish day when you
see a large range
day the next morning session expect that
first 30 minutes to just Mark time okay
they call it barcoding or painting just
back and forth up and down watching
paint dry and grass grow basically what
it's like okay to me it looks like a
pick a fence this this goes sideways and
that's what you're
seeing essentially in price action in
that first few minutes of trading it's
just like and then you wait for a minute
to
move what would that be well as I
outlined on Twitter this morning I I put
a PO up and I haven't looked at the the
polls results yet okay I I posted it and
then I went
and had some
uh late breakfast with my wife while we
were getting ready to start this live
stream and before I left Twitter I told
everybody I said I would rather see the
market drop initially and then move
towards that
19695 level because there's really
smooth relative equal highs up here
there's like four or five highs up there
that just did not get through last week
and we were giving it a chance to reach
for it but it just said no I'm not
interested yet and they had a nice drop
away from that big drop actually so
everybody has forgot about that level
nobody has any interest in that level
and when I asked everyone that to mark
their 60 Minute and 15 minute buy side
and sell side they're looking at you
know the ones that were formed five
candles ago one one in a chart and you
you have to zoom out you have to zoom
out and see
okay where can this thing be reaching
for and some of you completely forgot
about that that level up there and it's
still in the cards it's still
potentially possible for that to be
traded to this week it could be traded
there today if it really wants to get
wild and crazy about it but that is a
logical level to draw to because it's so
smooth it's so perfectly designed where
they all agree with maybe just slightly
lower than that but that that 19695
level is it's right for the picking
basically now we have some range to get
through to get to that level and I'm not
saying it's going to be a straight line
to it but in my mind that's what I was
thinking about in terms of the narrative
today and when I'm live streaming this
and I'm talking to you that's why I felt
confident about talking about how see I
like how it's been keeping the ability
to not go above that 288.5a
it you'll hear me talk about it and then
I think it's going to roll
over and you can take out that initial
low of the
day at the bottom end of that new dog or
end dog new day opening
got at the time I said we're hitting
that we're going to see if it wants to
roll over and take out that initial low
it does
so towards what level it's the lower
quadrant of that 1 hour Bice balance
cell efficiency so if it's
bullish is it better for it to come all
the way down and touch this candle's
high like everybody thinks that's that's
how inefficiencies are traded bro
inefficiencies have always been around
bro you didn't invent an
inefficiency no I didn't in I didn't
invent an inefficiency i invented the
proper logic to trade them okay and what
you want to see is you want to see them
not completely fill you don't want to
see them
fill you've never heard Chris Lori teach
that in any of his teachings I have
every single one of his recordings
before he changed his his his his uh
what do you call his program that he
asked me he gave me login information I
didn't pay for that he gave me long
information to look at and critique what
he was
doing it was never in any of his
lectures so I don't teach liquidity
voids being filled in completely n your
trade it can trade all the way down to
that low but that's not what I'm looking
for and that's what I'm teaching you to
look for the opening staying some
portion open because what that means is
everybody thinks that this level is
where it should trade to if they have
any understanding about Market
inefficiencies they think that this
candle sticks High
here they think this is the this is the
bees knees baby they want to get in
there and try to get in as low as they
possibly can to buy that
and I am telling you you want to
grade that inefficiency that's defined
like this
okay between this candle's low and this
candle's high and if you drop your FIB
on that and you put it in 25% 50% and
75% of that range you can see what the
algorithm will do because it's doing
this very thing here the mechanism that
it's calculating on is they're taking it
this high this low low and they're
getting this level this level and this
level and it will not if it wants to go
higher it will not go down here and
touch this one that's what smart money
is looking for it's looking for this
lower quadrant or halfway
point ideally you want to see it in the
upper half but if it's going to go below
it then it becomes
essential for it to be respecting the
lower quadrant and still leave that
lower boundary Point intact not trade to
it that's what they want to see
okay so contrast that with everything
else out there and it's completely
standing on its own and that's what my
challenge has always been you know I
don't mind I don't mind criticism I
don't mind skepticism in fact in fact I
encourage it look at the Antics I put on
social media I want you to I want you to
think man this guy is such a clown I'm
gonna go out and prove and guess what
you end up proving that I'm right and
then you're a student and that's how it
works that's that's the way the exchange
is
here I I a market maker I set you up I
give you a Judah swing I tell you to
chase something for the purpose of you
think you're going to expose me and try
to make me look stupid but you end up
making me look every bit of intelligent
I claim to be in the
beginning and it's fun and you love
it so anyway the liquidity here was
taken so this is your Judah swing it's a
deferred Market delivery whereas
initially you have this it drops down
and gives you a short-term low and then
it rallies and they take out a
short-term swing High because what will
what will Traders think that do happen
to be on side with maybe they're
expecting the market to go higher the
next day after a big large range up
close day maybe they're right okay
because sometimes you know I was I was
right you know for a few months not
knowing what I was doing back in the
90s I thought it was skill admittedly
but I was humbled probably doesn't sound
like I was humbled the way I talk you
know on Twitter
but they'll see that as a breakout now I
was never really a breakout Trader it
didn't make any sense to me um because
to me it just means your stop has to be
farther away but I get there's a school
of thought out there and people out
there claim to be profitable that that's
how they trade they never use a stop
loss and it's just it's gambling in my
opinion but that is still a trading
approach that is used in the
marketplace when they have that
confirmation that they think is
confirmation that the Market's bullish
anyone in everyone that may take Longs
in this market they're going to start
looking for where their stop loss would
be and the only logical place at this
point here when there's a breakout is
it's this
low can they hide that from
you am I hiding it from you I'm still
seeing people tell them in the comment
section that I'm hiding something I'm
literally explaining it I'm explaining
it so my son can understand it and it's
happening it's it's unfolding as we talk
about it it's not hindsight
that low is your initial low on a day
that is predisposed to go higher so
they're going to give them a
trap they're going to do
what the Predator goes down to the
watering hole that's that blue shaded
area here that's that b balance
deficiency the Predator at night time
gets its drink okay and then it leaves
then it comes back
after all the gazel the water buffalo
they all start coming right here because
they saw the Predator leave they saw it
foot tracks the scent okay yeah the
Lions and the and the you the the things
that could eat
me they're no longer at their watering
hole so they come and they go down there
and they start drinking and this is
exactly
where the
Predator stalks they want to
eat they're eating right in that little
area there
so when it when it gets below this low
here this is your hunting Zone you're in
there trying to consume less informed
Traders I do not care if they lost money
on the other side of my trade that's the
whole reason why I'm in here I want them
to go down one swallow goodbye you're
consumed devoured
I'm hunting you I'm teaching you how to
hunt does a lion look down on its prey
before it kills it and eats it does it
apologize
no look what it does it's Swift about
it it tucks its head under its neck goes
right for the jugular and crushes its
wind
pip but it also when it messes with
hyenas it'll run them down
and break their back just for the fun of
it because it wants all the other ones
to see what that line does to that
one what do you think that is a metaphor
for in
training that's what people do when they
know what they're talking about and they
go in front of laughing hyenas and they
show them every single day I can break
your spine and render you useless and
toy with you oh eventually consume you
but that's not what you're seeing here
this is engineering
liquidity when the market trades down in
below this low there has to be some
level because we're not trading zones
okay we're not doing supply and demand
zones we're trading very specific price
levels so this is why this is not supply
and demand what levels would there be in
interest in
well you have this low
here I know this is some good stuff
isn't it can't believe you're getting
this for
free thank my son for
it you're a jerk you should have always
been teaching this way
okay I said it already so you don't have
to leave a comment
now all right so that's cell side
there that's
retail smart money waits for the
algorithm because it's two different
things there the algorithm is the price
engine that drops price down air that
lets smart money accumulate their long
positions at a
time and
place now what's the missing pieces
price what price well you have this bu
balance sign efficiency we grade that
lower quadrant consequent encroachment
upper quadrant and the
high where does this low form just above
consequent encroachment so if you are a
Trader that wants to scale in you can't
do this in certain prop firms so you'll
have to wait for what I'll show you in a
second you want to see it trade down
into consequent encroachment you can
scale in do one contract there and if it
gets down to the lower quadrant you want
to do one contract there and then your
stop needs to be at least two to three
tick below the B bound cell sign
efficiency because it can touch the low
we don't want it to happen but you have
to afford yourself the
potential seeing that deliver all the
way down to that candlestick's high down
here on the hourly chart okay so the
price levels you're looking for is the
lower quadrant and consequent
encroachment then any inefficiency
between those two price points
watch PhD level oh my goodness man man
this is amazing I know I actually have
old Floor Traders and I have quote
unquote institutional guys in the
comment section telling me this is
mindblowing yes of course it is it's ICT
talking about it what are you talking
about why you surprised so we have this
price level here and this price level
here so when price trades into it there
that is a what as a potential entry now
would it be wise for you just because it
trades down there on a down candle would
that be wise to trade
that no just simply because it's cheap
and it's at the price level is that a
good time to be a buyer no because we
have to be a buyer after it shows us
it's given enough enough information
we're not looking for confirmation peray
we're just looking for a little bit more
because this thing could still drop all
the way down to the low of that bu Bal
efficiency which is on the hourly chart
over here okay so what we could look for
is price trading down to consequent
encroachment and we know that it could
potentially trade down to the lower
quadrant too so you could do one
contract here just to make sure you got
something on now if you're in a certain
particular uh prop firm you won't be
able to add the next position where I'm
going to show you because it's they're
going to say that you're you know I
forgot what they call it I saw other
YouTubers talking about that you're
you're averaging in and you're adding to
a losing trade so
um they don't apparently want you doing
that and I guess it's that's okay but
here's how here's how you turn that
upside down against them okay you see
this price you wait for it to trade to
it and then watch how it behaves it
trades to it returns back up
into Old low this portion of the sippy
which is this candlesticks low to this
candlesticks High the most sensitive
price points are going to be in the
lower half of it that's this watch these
are all the things that you're supposed
to be doing every night Caleb and all of
you that are watching watching you want
to look at all these price runs and and
see this is a signature does it get up
there to the midpoint no so what does
that mean it's weak so it's going to go
to the next level what level this level
down here the lower quadrant of the B
balance cell efficiency so when we're
seeing that we wait for it to drop down
then this candle we open up trade right
to this candlesticks low what is that
that's an immediate rebalance every
single one of you should be screen I'll
move out of the way screenshot this
candles sticks high right here I'll move
my Cur rather wait in a second but what
you're going to do is you're going
to load a line on here and draw that out
in time or you can draw it this way and
annotate that as a immediate rebalance
and the market drops aggressively go
ahead and take a shot of that right
there and then also this discount
Wick look what it's
doing it's always been in front of you
but you never you never noticed it so
you have immediate rebalance plus
consequent encroachment oh my goodness
and it's also trading where
near consequent crment of the Body
Balance cell sign efficiency so that's
not one thing that's not two things
that's three
things and the price goes down and hits
the lower quadrant and traces a little
bit past it now here's where it gets fun
if we don't want to see that lower
quadrant traded to because an ideal
world optimally that's how it should be
if that's the
case I know I know you're watching this
thinking damn this guy's good look at
this it's so it's so amazing right I
know it's it's freaking boring but I
love that you get excited about it I get
off on it I I love living by carries
through all of you experiencing it for
the first time so this Candlestick right
here hits the lower quadrant let it
sweep this level that lower quadrant of
the b b c efficiency over here it does
that here and then we see what the
market trade higher soon as this
Candlestick right
there that opening Price Plus
the volume imbalance that's there see
that there's two PD arrays two of them
after it's hit the lowest level that we
want to see trade to and it's already
worked belowed a little
bit now we have the market trade higher
right there that makes that Candlestick
right there and these series of
candlesticks here's some order block
Theory okay there's a chapter coming out
ready you ready for it
[Music]
this opening
price oh this is the good stuff I am
going to start writing this stuff down I
wasn't interested until you started
talking about this IC now I'm going to
write this stuff
down and then you have this
one
there this is the change in the state of
delivery right there now
why what's the what's the point of that
because we've already hit the lowest
level that we want to see traded to in
that b b cell sign efficiency see
that it went below it traded higher and
then what happens to the very next
candle we open up here so there's a
separation between this candlesticks
close and this candlesticks
open see that so this makes this
what at the time of this opening that
makes this a vacuum block where there's
there's no price at all between these
two candlesticks touching except for
this
Wick it trades down to this
candlestick's close that is an immediate
rebalance because the wick is a gap so
we trade down immediately there and then
price starts to deliver all the way up
to the first of all these down closed
candles this is the high of your entire
order
block Market opens up here trades down
into the order block here
and then start sending price
[Music]
higher reaching up creat a swing High
towards the high end of that opening
range
Gap sell side taken off that
low low takes out that low they
accumulating what cell side to send it
where higher
[Music]
now if you're looking on a day there
wasn't a very large range day like say
for instance yesterday we didn't have
this monster of a a daily Candlestick
say it was just within the realm of an
average daily range maybe just a little
bit above it you could be trading the
morning session and you would not have
to incur all all the hardships that the
initial 30 minutes of trading can afford
you like it did today and also you're
more inclined to see a more protracted
run in price that means where we took
out the short-term High
[Music]
here
there this high on the one minute chart
is this line here on the 15sec chart so
we had high slightly lower high so
relative equal highs they rallied it and
then sank it
all of
this all this type of price action
they're all characteristic of a trading
session in the morning after a large
range day so my question to you is
this do you want to trade when the
market has these things that you have to
worry about when your experience levels
a lot lower because you're just now
starting to learn about it or do you see
the advantages of seeing these
characteristics okay and this is what I
should have done in the beginning when I
was doing paid mentorship in 2016 I
expected the people because they paid
that they would just simply look at the
logic look at what I'm showing them in
real time price action and and teaching
them that it was a graduated
understanding they can't learn it all in
one time there's no way I could teach
everything in one session there's so
many things I mean you want the highest
understanding of what price is likely to
do and why it should algorithmically
deliver
that can't be delivered in these little
short videos that you're asking for you
have to treat it like college this is
the college degree that you really need
it's not the stuff they they sell you in
those those uh indoctrination centers
so is it
beneficial this was the question I
should have led into with my first
teaching and should have repeated every
single day for the first three months
back in 2016 through paid
mentorship I'm going to show you
condition in a
good low resistance Market condition and
I'm going to show
you characteristics and price delivery
in high
resistance conditions so that means
you're going to see what it looks like
on both sides of the
spectrum now the advantages are this is
what you don't realize when you start
studying with me is when when pric is in
a condition or
characteristic that's defined by in the
morning after a large range
day I've taught this I've never deviated
from this and I I this was something I
picked up in 1995 I do not deviate from
this every single time after it's a
large range day I always remind my
students of this the morning session
after you have to be extremely careful
not to get all caught up and think that
you have you know everything figured out
not in the begin the beginning you're
going to you're not going to know what
you think think you you should know and
you're going to discover that you don't
know what you should have
known because your your experience
levels is not there yet and that's the
normal thing but do you
agree do you agree that it is
advantageous that means it's helpful to
you it's helpful for you to
recognize that this Watering Hole has a
whole lot more Predators around
it than another time when there
is less foot traffic on the ground in
the sand you can see that there's there
hasn't been a whole lot of uh activity
around the water hole so you're probably
going to be able to make it out of the
out of the scene after you get your
drink in in plain terms it's this do you
think it's helpful to you to know when
you're probably going to lose money
easily what's going to make your trade
harder to pan
out so you want to know what it looks
like the trade in low resistance
liquidity
runs okay yeah I want to teach it to you
and I have been but the easiest way to
determine what that is is by showing you
what it looks like when it's
harder but you want to avoid those
things don't only talk to me when it's
going to be easy ICT just tell me what
you know what the Market's going to do
so just tell us what the Market's going
to do I am but you're not liking the way
that medicine tastes and instead of
swallowing you're spitting it out and
that's going to be used in and sound
clips and it wasn't intended for that
purpose but you get what I'm saying so
the point is this by learning the
difficult Pathways to where you're
trying to get you'll also know that
there are certain Pathways that are
actually a lot more smoother there's no
rocks in it it's soft it's soft soil
there's no Thorn bushes it's a little
bit wider you can see down the pathway a
little bit further but the only way you
can appreciate that way of doing it is
by walking through the Bramble Bush
walking through the Stony Pathways that
have lots of things that's going to
scratch you all up it's going to feel
like I don't want to do this that's
exactly how you should
study because trading is going to
present those characteristics to you if
you stay in this industry long enough
you're going to see that happen there's
going to be periods where your trading
is going to be like that but there are
specific and generic trading
times where the Market will present
these unfortunate characteristics where
you just can't go in in one entry and
keep pyramiding and it's never going to
retrace on you and just just keep
running in your favor you're going to be
in like quicksand initially where it's
like it's hard to feel what it's feeling
and if you watch live streamers I mean
maybe they'll do it less now because I
talk today
but because they live stream they feel
obligated to perform for you and to me
that's one of the weaknesses of of live
streaming
because if you're trying to
constantly promote something or prove
that you can do
something you're not making it about
sound lowrisk high probability trading
you're you're in the business of
entertaining I'm not here to entertain
you I'm not here for that I'm here to
teach my son how to navigate this stuff
and there's going to be times even
though he's my son even though he's he
has the access to Enigma which is me I
Enigma there is no uh higher order of
being able to read
price this son of mine has all those
those advantages but he still has the
likelihood of falling victim to the
conditions of the marketplace that he
might think he sees something in it
because his myopic experience it's very
limited in the beginning and males tend
to think that they can run faster before
they learn how to
crawl while I don't believe that that's
the case for my son I'm removing any of
that enticement by reminding him and
teaching him that after large range days
on a daily
chart the next morning session that
means all the way through
lunch now think about it how do you
fight fomo how do you fight the fear of
missing out Michael how do you teach
your students to to wrestle with all
this you know because you have all these
things and people can teach you know
your stuff because they can use
hindsight moves and and entices people
to take new trades and I feel like I'm
missing out when I see your trade
executions you're all worrying about the
wrong things instead of saying how can I
know that I'm doing the right thing by
sitting on my
hands the richest traders in the world
are the ones that have well-written
plans of
inactivity I'm going say that in another
way the richest Traders are the ones
that have planned Stillness that means
they're not trying to trade sure these
markets are moving around they
absolutely are moving
around but they're not in here to prove
that they can navigate every
fluctuation they want to be in the
markets when its highest degree of
probability is in their favor not in the
Market's
favor do you want to go in a condition
where you have the highest probability
of having your ass torn
off or that you have done your due
diligence and you have waited to a
proper time when there is no large range
day the previous day that would negate
you trading the morning
session because your experience level is
not there I'm not saying that my
Advanced students have been around that
have matured after being with me for a
while and they knew their model there
are trades that you can take I'm not
saying that you should not all trade at
any given time ever trading on a morning
session after a large day I'm not saying
that what I'm saying is as a student and
I'm talking to my son he can't do this
yet so if you're like him and you just
can't walk out there and take down a
pound of Flesh in trading every single
day and know what you're trading for if
you can't do that then you should not be
engaging in the morning session after a
large range day how hard is
that it's a very simple thing but it's
hard to communicate because people you
know I have lots of students that just
simply will not listen to that and they
complain I can't make any money I can't
do this I can't do that this stuff is so
hard what are you doing well I took this
trade here what day is today it's the
day after yesterday is a large range day
and I'm trying to trade in the session
here and I'm going against what would
normally be expected as a bias and
everything's wrong so that tells me they
didn't do anything right in terms of
studying they didn't Journal they didn't
talk about in their own annotations what
they struggle
with so that way they can identify what
they are they're walking around with
blinders
and they just want things to work
perfectly for them and it doesn't work
that
way I wasted years doing that stuff
expecting something you know just a
click and it didn't
click it didn't
click I had to have
a an intervention they'll call it that
way and then things started being
visible to
me but you have to appreciate when the
markets are a little bit harder
when they're being
held at at at at bay where they are not
allowed to just run around and do
whatever they want to
do as soon as you can recognize that
condition in the marketplace the better
and as soon as you recognize it turn
your charts off and walk away and come
back the next session and since it's the
morning session here today the easiest
thing would be to turn off your
charts let it do whatever it wants to do
all
through until 1:30 in afternoon later
today and then sit down determine where
the highest high and the lowest low of
the day is look at the morning session
High the the the low of the day in the
morning session and then what was the
highs that was formed in between those
two reference
points the next highest or the next
lower highest and the next higher low
inside that range that defines the
highest high and the lowest low at 130
there's there's two buy sides that
you'll have and there's two sell sides
that you'll have chances are it's not to
take out both of the highest high and
the lowest low again going into the PM
session but it will gravitate to one of
them the question is is which one do you
think without even being at 130 yet
which one is it most likely going to
do I want you to write that down in your
journal and put the time that you you
wrote down and then at 1:30 watch and
see what price does discover where the
two buy side liquidities are and two
sell-side liquidities are you have your
lunch High your lunch low and you have
the high of the day and the low of the
day that's what you walk into the
afternoon session doing it's the same
thing that you would do in the London
session you're just going to use the
previous trading session the same
way I don't need to be up at one to do I
just told you how to do it right there
the previous days high and low and then
the high and the low that's inside that
previous day range that's formed up to 2
o'clock in the morning Eastern
time that's what you're looking for and
then tomorrow if we don't have a large
range day tomorrow I'm sorry if we don't
have a large range day today tomorrow's
morning session will be
easy so you can see how all these things
because you have protocols you're
learning protocols you're learning my
protocols and the things and processes
that determine when I should do
something and when I shouldn't do
something when do I push the the pedal
to the floor and just go all out when
should I just pump the brakes and slow
down and when should I just turn the
ignition off park it and go do something
else how often have you thought about
that for your trading instead of just go
go go let's go let's F and go let's F
and go that's that's everybody wants to
do that and you have to learn to
acknowledge when the Market's saying
it's it's Amateur hour right now so
anybody that comes in here is getting
slaughtered do you want to go to a rave
where everybody's most likely getting
murdered you want to go there I want to
go to the one that has that experience
okay
versus one that say got great music it's
a really good healthy environment
there's no drugs there's no solicitation
for any kind of thing of their legal and
you're just having a really good time
with friends and listening to good
music obviously you'd want to go to the
second one right
so treat the market like a
slaughterhouse you don't want to be in
here as a
sheep because you're going to get
slaughtered you're not going to come out
with all of your appendages intact
you're going to lose something you're
going to leave something in here if you
if you try to trade on these days with
no no understanding and you disregard
what I'm
teaching the morning session after a
large range day you have to be either
dialed in and know exactly what you're
looking for and you're you're none of
you are there yet none of you are there
yet okay I promise you you're not there
so
it's good medicine and it's responsible
of me as a as an educator to tell you to
Simply sit still and don't do anything
tape it that means you're not even demo
trading
it I don't know maybe you've probably
done some demo trading this morning
maybe maybe you did something right
maybe you did something wrong chalk it
up as
and I mean that because you
probably don't know what you did and why
you did it and you're going to think
that it means that you're better than
you really are and you're going to have
that inflated state of mind about
yourself and you're going to go and
repeat the same mistake next time you
have a very large range day you're going
to go in there and try to trade again
but you might do it with a funded
account you might do it with real
money and then now the outcome is
unfavorable and you're going to be upset
and you can avoid all that you can avoid
saying I'm GNA never do that again by
simply never doing it the first time
so let's let's take a look at what we
have here and I'm going to close it up
because I went a little bit past I
really did want to go en close it at
11:30 but there's a lot of points that I
want to make sure Caleb understood
here all righty so we
have let work on this chart here let's
go to a 15-minute time
frame take this off
[Music]
all right I do like the fact that we
started the day off going deeper
lower we took out the minor buy side we
only had a shallow retracement we didn't
come down and take out the low of the
day which is all positive for the
afternoon session
so as long as we start working towards
any consolidation but not taking out
that low my expectation would be enjoy
lunch just relax come back to your
charts around 1:15 1:30 p.m. Eastern
Standard Time okay and then observe
where the highest
high and the lowest low of the day is on
a 15-minute time
frame then drop down to a 5-minute chart
and then you'll see lower small smaller
short-term highs and lows that are
inside the high and the low of the debt
or respectively high and low of the de
and it may be a slightly higher high but
whatever that high is at 130 you note
that and then you note the low and then
you use either the uh the lower high
that you can see maybe on a 15-minute
chart chart rather or the F minute chart
if you can't see it obviously on a FIV
minute chart you drop down to a one
minute chart you'll see the lower high
that's less
than the highest high of the day or the
lowest of the low so you're going to
have two layers of buy side and sell
side or you'll watch that form as 1:30
trading unfolds going into 2 o'cl and
then at 2 o'cl what you'll see is the PM
session unfold and it'll start to
to Traverse to either the buy side or
the sell side and I'm inclined to think
that they're going to reach for that
19695 level eventually does it need to
trade here today no so in my mind I want
to see them give me a market
structure and opportunities for the
market to build that narrative in
price and at 130 I'll be looking for
that and if I have something that I like
I will engage it I will trade it I will
annotate it I will go through all the
Motions of of doing that and then you'll
see another example okay so I'm
literally tipping my hand to you telling
you how to navigate it on atic sessions
which is after very large range days in
the morning session and then what I use
as a protocol it's going to be the same
stuff in the book folks so why I'm
telling you you do not need to buy my
books don't don't wait for a book and
then miss all this opportunity to learn
because I'm doing it dynamically over
the charts
live like before it happens I'm telling
you on all these little time little time
frames how it should be
behaving what is it what's it doing it
for why is it going here why should it
behave that way and then I'm telling you
what going to do in the afternoon every
single time I trade in the afternoon
session it's what I just explained to
you that never changes it never ever
changes all I want to see is where the
liquidity is for the highest high and
the lowest low of the day and then I'm
going to wait and see does it make a
shorter high or a higher low basically
um than the low of the day and it will
go to one of them and price isn't going
to hide where it wants to go it's going
to be obvious what it's going to aim for
and that sets up the framework for the
afternoon session now what makes it
exciting is in the last hour or or so
um the opportunity for the market to
expand okay I I saw somebody say the
other day um generally the last hour of
the day you don't see the market trade
and make a new high of the day or low of
the day that's that is absolute
uh because that's where it's
creating the high and low of the day and
then towards the last 45 minutes that's
when it usually comes off of whatever
high or low of the day and it goes into
settlement there's four macros in that
last hour okay so technically five if
you if you really want to be dogmatic
about you know at the at the 2 o'cl
bleed over into 3 o' but that's another
discussion but the
uh the last hour of the day is them
actually
pricing in the extreme higher low of the
day on big expansion candles like a day
where we open near the low and close at
the high that last hour of trading
that's what's giving you that setup it's
going to reach and make a higher high
when it's bullish or it's going to reach
and make a lower low when it's bearish
and then that last 45 minutes you're
basically trying to get a read for how
they're going to settle in are they
going to settle at the high or are they
going to come off that high and come
back down into the range
and that's what my focus is that's what
I'm trying to trade with you don't ever
need to trade the morning session
ever the easier trades always are going
to be in the afternoon the PM trading
session is the easiest trading session
for index Futures always always always
it's the easiest absolute easiest
because you have all the daily range
already in there now are you going to
get the lines portion of the moves
absolutely
not but that's what that's what that's
what everybody wants in the beginning
they want the Li's portion when you're
not going to get the Lion's
portion but to get in there and get
consistent setups that are going to
yield to you that PM session is always
ripe for the
picking
so that's going to be it for today I
covered a lot of stuff I I went through
things that are going to help you avoid
draw down losing frustration getting
stopped out or chopped up as they call
it the chop is real right Patrick the
[Music]
uh the benefits of knowing this
information you can't appreciate that
yet until you start working with every
single
day whether you're trading with a funded
account funded account challenge or life
or demo you're going to see the the
problems of working with the morning
session after a large range day and if
you don't log these events and
characteristics in your
Journal you won't retain them you'll get
caught up in the fomo you'll be watching
something on social media maybe I might
inspire you because I did a trade and I
recorded it or I said something in a
live stream you're like oh I'm gonna do
something you know that's the worst
thing to do because you didn't plan that
trade you're impulsively reacting to
some kind of stimuli and never take any
trades when it's like that okay so
that's going to be it for today until
I'll talk to you tomorrow Lord willing
be safe